---
layout: post
title: Kitka, the Hauntingly Beautiful
date: '2008-12-04T21:16:00-08:00'
tags:
- music
---
If it were not for [Dead Can Dance](http://www.last.fm/music/Dead+Can+Dance),
specifically [Lisa Gerrard](http://www.last.fm/music/Lisa+Gerrard), I would be
positively impervious to the acceptance of the mystical and sometimes haunting
chants of Kitka. <!--more-->This morning on my way to work,
[WUWF](http://wuwf.org/) (88.1 FM) advertised that
[Kitka](http://www.kitka.org/) would be
[performing](http://www.mattiekellyartscenter.org/EventItem.cfm?ID=382) live in
Niceville, FL on the 22nd of February. At the time, I had been unaware of their
existence. The short [clip](http://wuwf.org/kitka/kit1.mp3) they aired was
enthralling and after hearing, I was on a mission to hear and learn more about
this all-woman vocal ensemble. It just so happens they have material on
[magnatune](http://magnatune.com/artists/kitka): a non-evil supplier of
DRM-free digital music. I won’t delve into the specifics of magnatune, but
excited was I to find out they carried Kitka.

I’d hate to say that Kitka is perfect for the holiday season and nothing else,
but it seems that way for the time being. Their medieval sounds are reminiscent
of clips you might hear in an ethnic film set back in those times. Wintery,
isolated, and desolate yet hauntingly beautiful and mystical. Full of angelic
harmonious beauty.

I’m so excited to have Kitka in my library. Hopefully they will remain as
something I can listen to in hopes of filling a part of my soul that might be
empty.

I can’t end this post without thanking Lisa Gerrard for her incomprehensible,
poetic glossolalia and opening me up to the ethereal side of music.
