---
layout: post
title: Back to the Front-end
date: '2019-09-12T21:49:16-07:00'
tags: [webdev]
---

Web development is a long-lost friend of mine. I started learning basic HTML and
CSS way back in the late 90s when Netscape and IE were your only options. I had
a lot of fun learning it and eventually applying the skills I learned to help
other people and businesses build their presences.

As my career evolved, however, I grew into more of a back-end developer thanks
to Rails and its opinionated goodness. And then I made my way into management.
These paths took me further away from where I started originally which is ok,
but it took me while to realize how much I missed transposing designs into
interactive web pages.

I've been less and less interested in reading about technical leadership and
management and more interested in the modern day landscape of web design.
Resources like [HTML & CSS Is Hard](https://internetingishard.com/html-and-css/)
and the [Responsive Web Design Bootcamp](https://scrimba.com/g/gresponsive) have
given me a boost in becoming familiar with modern web design. I'm amazed at how
much has changed and how much easier some things are these days. But, I'm also
overwhelmed by all the new technology and front-end related tools that are
required; it's not nearly as simple as creating a few HTML pages anymore.

In bringing myself back up to speed, I have been volunteering a few hours a week
on helping a CEO bring her vision to life. What's great about this opportunity
is that there was a blank slate for the front-end, so I worked with my wife, who
is a UX Designer by trade, to collaborate with the CEO and design the initial
prototypes. Since I was working so closely with my wife the UX Designer, I was
able to iterate quickly and show the CEO proof-of-concepts in a short amount of
time.

With this project, I have been able to learn a lot about React, webpack, and
some of the newer-to-me parts of CSS like flexbox. I have had a blast doing so
and I can't wait to eventually land a career somewhere building intuitive and
fresh interfaces.

You can see the work I've done by visiting
[VinoVoyage](http://www.vinovoyage.com/wineries)
